yep Zee if sum over all possible wise
isn't that out that's right that's right
and we will talk about how you use of
the for background would prove that
efficient
just like in hmm so you can use the form
a parabola to compute this efficiently
structurally it's a state how about this
a few things are changing have changed
but you're basically the structure this
is the same as with the IAM Quebec
values for estimating hmm training
centers you care about the heat it's
like I just went the maximum you care
about to see when you do training
absolutely public yep we call the amount
of remember training you were minimizing
the negative of this just like your
training data
okay and so does the absolutely appears
it's absolutely vital to get that
completed well in order to do well
calibrated trick for your scoring that's
relation so f of Y XY + XO vectors
writes a vector Y is a vector X is a
vector
okay so we're selling your sum of all
possible combinations of sequences al
likes yes that's right possible see
that's right anyway I'll show you the
towards the end of lecture how the for
back or operations complete that
efficient just like in each other's p.m.
the for background and compute the
expected will get to
I'm also releasing course notes for
syrups later this week which will have a
very detail so that you can just return
as much detail as you like probably more
than you like okay so an operational
example maybe this will make these a
little bit more clear so that there's
access lengths to fish asleep and why
that we are considering is number so
this is the a matrix this is the o
matrix so this is a this is the score of
this is the recall that these scores are
inside the exponent the score of
transitioning from mountain town from
now to verb from birth to now convert
refer so total
we've got the change of notation here
from last year
okay so basically the idea is you just
use posting a in the W speedo this is
like this is no danger for master
anyways the idea is that you basically
there's there's four trends there's four
things here this being a point to a
transition from start to now transition
from now to verb an omission from
negative fish and an admission from verb
to stick the spore things in the
summation if you look at you can read up
what that is in this matrix you get the
total score the total sum of these
scores is e to the 4 and then the Z
thing is the sum for each of these
possibilities right here these
possibilities
now-now-now burb burb down Roper
assuming that the output token stage is
only a noun or verb so now l equals 2 in
this simple example so this is the four
possibilities that Z sums over and these
are their exponentiated scores so if you
sort of look at this a now verb is
actually the single most likely the
single most likely output sequence and
then if you sort of divide by the sum of
all when we get that ability the
conditional probability of now verb
given fish similar to this model is 66%
I made them up like we'll talk about
training later but assume that this
models trainer model and continuous so
when your continuous you obviously can't
express this as a discrete table right
so yes there's a there's a version of
conditioner and fields for calcium to do
ceramic beads by gas and conditioner
field states so if you think about it um
these these are just sort of somehow
conditional probabilities right and so
you can also express the initial
probabilities of variable could use
variables but you need to make some
structural assumptions because you can't
just like I mean one thing you could do
which is I would not recommend is
discretize McCue space in small pockets
and learn a parameter for pocket and
when I recommend that the other thing
you do is assume assume that the
condition conditional on continuous
function has some shape for example a
Gaussian shape right and then a Gaussian
distribution is privatized by the mean
and the variance or if it's multivariate
Gaussian the mean vector and the
covariance matrix and so if you assume
that it's a if you assume that this
model is a Gaussian conditional random
field then the than everything
each of these probability tables in a
study of Gaussian probability function
no because it's no condition on the X oh
okay you saw thanks you say that Y you
could also have a Gaussian hidden Markov
model that's the best continuous that is
fully gender and you'll learn to the
same trade-off of where you spend your
model capacity I should also mention
that Gaussian still is only one of many
possible kinetic continuous
distributions you can use but it's the
one that's most commonly is for grinding
reasons including the fact that has
really compact update rules because it's
closed for one or many many update rules
but yeah then you then so in general you
can think of Al not as matrices but as
functions but if you think of a and OS
functions then you just take in a
transition from this value to this value
if it's a Gaussian function then it's
like what is the distance between these
two divided by the standard deviation
right the standard Gaussian assumptions
right right so the more general you can
think of a knows as functions and not as
tables then the kids were to the street
is just it's a great question I'm good
everyone's asking that question it's a
very important question and I'll show
you how at the end of class I will give
you this efficiently using for map
or I guess just if you just want to eat
Xia this is for you want to compute the
gradient video format okay so now so
this is a logistic function like you
know either the something divided by the
denominator so as the scoring of some of
this Y as the score of this Y increases
so if we change our model parameters so
that the score this Y increases in the
probability this conditional probability
of this Y goes from 0 to 1 as the score
becomes very negative 2 very possible
this is just this help logistic
regression was this up in this round
field because I feel just generalizes us
to see sequences
okay so this is the basic conditional on
film the director models the conditional
probability of an output sequence give
it an input sequence it's at the screen
remodeled at sets makes the log linear
assumption to make
so the number of parameters is tractable
in fact it has the same number of
parameters as a hidden Markov model but
I've expressed everything here in terms
of the a matrix and column matrix which
you can do for our top models well the
only difference here is it's just
like.how the difference between naive
bayes and logistic regression it had
basically that they made all these
distribution assumptions we come out of
the drug featured in literature that
says screw it's just a linear model will
in your new function inside an exponent
here is it again it's like I haven't
seen number parameters I make the same
number of structural dependences
sumption but everything is otherwise
it's just a song inside an exponent
linear sum aside so you can think of
this as first-order sequential to
superburger
what remains how to make predictions how
to train extensions of fun stuff
okay prediction actually you guys are
gonna make predictions if you split all
you well okay I'll show I'll show you so
the prediction is I find the highest
probability sequence given given a train
monsters with it when I talk about
training the models train given input
sequence predict the output sequence
with highest probability I can take the
Y so log is a monotonic transformation
second it is equivalent to finding the
sequence with the highest log
probability write the denominator the Z
function is does not depend on Y so it
doesn't factor into the arc maps so it's
basically find the lie that has the
highest scoring with my with my scoring
function and this is the definition of
my scoring function if I were to
interpret these agent ohms as the log
probabilities of hmm it will look
exactly the same and so and so actually
if you want to make that max but you
want to do the maximum probability
prediction is these exactly the same as
return for HX
you maintain a length K prefix solution
for some token of this form with this
scoring rule recursively solve for the
length k plus 1 solutions
this type of scoring rule after you've
after you've done this you predict the
best length m prefix solution
okay
yes
it's the pictur representation just like
in in terms the first one is just the
first the first perfect solution exists
degenerate it's a base case it's ISTE
token the second solution you consider
pending V / because they're cutting verb
to each of these you pick the one that
has the highest total score according to
the scoring rule let's say it turns out
of you down do the same for determiner
you pick the high you pick the score
that has the highest score from penny
would be turn right now plus the
transition admission probabilities so on
it's over you score the prefix the
prefix sequences the subsequence is the
best subsequence is an ending each of
these tokens plus the linear scoring
rule so you want to concoct the winning
score because it's used in the next
generation
so on so just like in hmm
if you just think of these apps is this
happening this app summation is just
like a lot of abilities in meeting them
a much
okay so one thing that we're terribly in
Asia mental give you that retur be in
conditioner I kids won't give you is the
actual probability of the seasons right
and in hmm is these Asian O's directly
correspond to the log probabilities of
the individual components of the model
and so we just think the exponentiation
of this total sum you get the actual
probability of that see needs additional
fields you don't right you only get the
score right in order to compute the
conditional probability you have to
divide by this guy which as many of you
have commented on seems at least
initially contracted
okay so yes we've already half we've
already talked about this and not naive
approach their overall crime time so
here's how we can do it in more
efficiently so I'm going to a little bit
of notation let let G be a matrix of the
where each with the entry corresponds to
this term
so this is a token J
so that can actually write the
probability of so here I'm suppressing
expert note-taker for gravity because
the X is constant in this this entire
example the entire sequence so we write
this probability as this and we got to
like the partition function as this
okay so this is this is G this this this
formula can be exploited by a concept
known as a matrix every billion and
exactly what it is I always forget what
exactly what it is but the basic idea is
as follows suppose suppose I want to
compute suppose we just have a length
one sequence right or when we want to
find so J's isn't one and we want to
find all the probabilities that goes
from so that goes from that goes from
all possible A's to all possible B's so
I guess is going to see this then move
just a sum over basically then if we
compute this matrix we just sum over
this make all the entries of this matrix
and we would have the Z function so J if
that equals one then this guy is just a
single product then you just sum over
all the entries of this matrix in your
duck it turns out that we can
recursively compute this G so for
example if we want to compute the
summation of the rule the notation for G
from one to two then it's basically this
matrix multiply which is equal to the
summation
and then you could of course recursively
define this so G from I to J is from the
I've token to the J token is equal to
this sum of these matrices and it will
call it each matrix is of this one the
only thing that depends on the location
you are in the sequence is the
observation
so turns out that if you do this this
guy equals this guy so if you can
efficiently compute this guy for G of 1
to M you just sum over all the entries
of this matrix
there's a path talent interpretation of
what I just show you and again I'm going
to have all this in a court in the
course let's release later this in very
fine detail so there's a path county
interpretation of this G matrix but the
interpretation of the path of you is
that it's though it's the way it's the
weighted path from A to B as a
transition through the first token in
the first emission token in sequence so
if if a and B are a Plutonians so one of
the L part of speech tags and I
condition on the word first word in the
sequence input sequence and it's the
weighted path from going from nouns over
or start to now start to verb right and
that way is exactly this yeah so the
very first equation that's a pretty big
one sorry this one this sounds pretty so
the sum is big I'm sure they we can
compute this matrix efficiently l
quadratic Janell quadratic and again
actually it will turn out to be linear
now because only the only nonzero entry
of a is start minor technical quadratic
you can just leave it as papa
the interpretation from a family
perspective is if as we end has we have
you the first word in the token what is
the weight I'm going to all possible
sequences here include all possible ways
of transitioning from now to verb while
observing this word the first word or
verb to now or determined Termidor start
to now and start to burn that's what
this matrix corresponds to that weighted
path the weight on that hat so what does
it mean to count the first two is the
weight of all paths we're at the Blue
Boar we transition from Parma speech tag
a at the beginning of the first prior to
the first word and transition to part of
speech tag be after the second word or
at the second one and that basically is
basically this matrix product write this
the second Matrix is whatever told you
started at the in the award one part
speech I was I'm going to transition
from that to the current word in our
concur perspective in the seconds open
and way is that exactly this this term
right and so this basically count all
possible paths from the token before the
first work to the token at the second it
basically because because of the
first-order decomposition
I can write it this one this is exactly
the Ford algorithm for those this isn't
exactly analogous at the for now
so
I should mention that for the stature
case of G equals one this matrix is
actually a factor because most of this
matrix is zero except for the except for
a equal start because you can't
transition from the first thing yeah
just for this start the entries are
though the edges are these weights the
unnormalized expedites probabilities
recall that Z equals this right
so for length one sequences it's just
it's simply this this is the all pastas
are all possible sequences of length one
and this is their score but like two
sequences equals this this is all
possible this is the scorn of all
possible signals over length to Robert
Traynham
looks like this and the writing type of
this you know is not exponential it's
just a bunch of matrix multiplies plus a
summation T and I should emphasize this
is directly analogous at the for now and
you guys
there are American stability issues with
the sequence gets very large because it
uses something to use something to use
in something so you deal with it in the
standard way with normalization what
you'll need to do for the implementation
of CRS form so it's poured out - for
difference is there now is making that
cake matrix long for this one that we
remember well it's either the log or you
normalize each stuff it's one of the
other I forget off don't look we're
going to determinant you're like
then you can make them all like
I honestly lose me often Tom I have this
ring down of course in general you don't
you don't compute G of X directly to
people on to G of X tab
Casillas is a very can be large or very
small so in general you don't you don't
actually drive into Z
and then the log of the log of the
numerator is just the F is this F score
function just computing like the G's
done necessarily commute so you don't
have to know it like break apart the
logs in a nice way you can damage the
right
any other questions yeah matrix they
prefer that - that's right if you think
about the fourth album - implemented for
hmm homework
it's literally also a matrix product but
because in the Ford algorithm you have
this council vector to maintain a
degeneration and the alpha vector has
the number of entries in the Alpha
vectors L the number of tokens right and
for each token you compute the
transition from all L or their token
from the previous time if you think of
this L is a vector it's multiplied by
this matrix this alpha is a vector it's
multiplied by a matrix of numbers
because each one is multiplied by L
numbers so it's actually it's actually
directly analogous
like if you only care about the
transition from start to one of these
guys so Indiana home I don't care about
the whole G matrix just from start then
it's directly obvious that at alpha
vector
okay so training is done by a gradient
descent just like in logistic regression
so in what you aggression you minimize
the negative blahblah it but recall that
this is a kugel - this is mathematical
equivalent to finding the parameters to
maximize the finish for popularity the
training set ready just these two
minimization of a maximization you take
a negative box it's a summation of all
possibilities and this is exactly the
log loss so we're just doing sequential
log loss basically log loss over
sequences and this negative log of the
probability decomposes into this
was that a question
okay so the first term is easy right
this is a linear term this is a linear
sum or a bunch of parameters right so
the first term small typo for the aim
for the eight for the eight parameters
the first one is discounting and for the
Oprah M is the person is it also she's
counting you count the number of
transitions you count the number of
state our speech tab for pairs just like
in in a bar Tapajos note that when oh I
don't normalize here right so this is so
if you think about how this is different
than Markov models it recommends I
divide by something in fringe of these
terms I don't hear because it's self
normalized it I divide by this stuff by
the partition function itself or in the
definition of division
so this stuff this is actually a hard
part right this parts easy this parts
part and in fact if you derive the
gradient from largest single binary
classification logic regression if you
have to do something here too it was
just much simpler because there only two
cases here right why it goes positive as
a wipers negative class but it's more
less the same concept it's just it's
much more property so this is something
that actually is direct and obvious the
logistic regression if I just think of
the ethnic as this as a linear school as
a linear scoring rule is to repin algis
too much to how how it looks like
religious compression and so if I just
apply the chain rule linear algebra
it looks like this and again you can
look at the course notes for more detail
and basically what happens is unique so
the gradient with respect to one of the
transition entries coefficients is equal
to the conditional is the conditional
probability of observing because it's
basically equal to entry probability of
observing this transition you know sum
over every entry in this every every
token in this every pair of tokens in
this in this word sequence it would see
so this is also directly how agus two
hidden Markov models but now we're not
doing like a one we're not doing like a
one a one step close form formula update
this is not the close performing update
this is a grading so after we compute
this we don't just like set it to the
divide by something we're done where did
you compute this integral radiant step
then we compute this again perfect
parameter in our model we take a
gradient step of coordinates so the
gradient step of the of this the
transition probability parameter induced
by the long partition function is equal
to the marginal probability of observing
those transition sequence over all the
training examples
and I was on automotive thinking but
it's actually just the same as the
gradient you prefer simple fire and
hospitalization in simple binary
classification was integrated in the
first term is simply the simple scoring
rule of in your squirrel and then log
the log term in patan when you take the
gradient of binary logit regression is
actually equal is equal to the
probability
and computing this term right here
computing this term you do with the for
background
so here's the optimality condition of
the conditional field training this is
the actress is the full optimization
model the gradient of the first part is
discounting the gradient with respect to
transition parameters the gradient of
the second part is equal to the sum over
every Tok every pair of adjacent
sequences that marginal probability of
observing this transition if you set
this grading equal to 0 then in
optimality the left-hand side here equal
so business and negative we move it over
this this equals this so what is the
optimality condition for a condition for
a condition rather feel prouder the
frequency count you observe in the
training set should equal the
conditional expectation of that
transition over the training game right
the number of times you observe the
number of times you observe this
transition your training set should be
equal to the sum of the marginal
probabilities of observing that
transition on the training set this is
the standard logistic regression
optimality condition you can get
something analogous for simple binary
but because this doesn't have a
closed-form formula to reach the
saticons you have to create a center so
write this book yeah yeah yeah
yeah it's the to eat it uh it's this
well it's a you have to marginalize out
over all the other tokens in the
sequence yeah this is messed up yeah
yeah this is a marginal over just the
Jade token and the j- first token equal
to DNA respectively so you don't care
for the first token you could talk about
the last time is Martin Lazaro also go
ahead to selfie we get the sum over all
them give the sum over all possible lies
all possible possibilities of wise other
than these tutorials exploit and focus
somebody doesn't look like
well he is defined as the standard form
e to the stuff used at the Sun you
should have additionally sum over all
the Y's that are not judged competent
agreements for stuff as well you
marvelous
this is for backup at CRS which is
almost the same as in the Markov models
you can reuse this this campus this
g-major side you'll find earlier
and this mark and once you compute these
so this is literally the port algorithm
from before just literally the same as
in a Markov model for out of them which
Jeep defined something different and
that's the London table
yeah of these like I'm so unique so
again when you compete the product if
you compute just the powder glue this
alpha vector is literally a so so this G
is not this G is already defined
it's only a chain of G's that need to
compute out the chain of these actually
close to this if you only care about
Star Trek president associate
and again I'm going to do a path
interpretation of the four backer of the
four backward other right we're want to
compute the sum over the four down we
want to compute a sum over all possible
paths that ended one of these tokens so
you sum over all these and just make
that recursively find out were
personally matrix formulation faster too
easy to implement recommend doing it
this way